---
layout: page
title: Make Hollywood Great Again
subtitle: Selma Benhassine, Giada Ehrlich, Ameer Elkhayat, Loïc Finette, Liam Gibbons 
---

## The Call to Action

"Folks, **we’ve got a crisis.** Hollywood’s been around for over a century. We’re talking the biggest, highest-grossing movies in the world. But now, foreign movies—they’re coming in hot. These movies, folks, they’re not just coming for our audiences. They’re coming for our **box office,** our jobs, and, frankly, our popcorn money. It’s like the Oscars all over again—rigged!

Now, here’s the thing: Hollywood’s top people, the big shots, they’re calling me. They’re saying, ‘Mr. Trump, you’re the only one who can fix this.’ And I say, ‘You’re absolutely right.’ 

So here’s what we’re gonna do, folks. We’re smart, okay? Smarter than those guys. We’re going take a look at the data and have our experts analyse it. All the past American movies, who's buying them, Americans or foreigners, the influencing factors, everything. And we're going to use all that information to attract those foreign audiences. Huge audiences, all over the world, to watch our movies. **Made in America, baby.**

You better believe it folks! We’re going to outshine, outclass, and outplay every single foreign competitor, and **Make Hollywood Great Again!** "

Words from the former and future convicted President himself. So let's get started.

{% include test.html %}

## Dataset

# Data Sources

The original CMU dataset only contains information on the total revenue generated by the movie, as well as the genre and the tropes of the characters featured within each movie. In order to look at trends in domestic versus foreign revenues, we needed to supplement this data. In addition to the CMU dataset, we used both the 'Movies Box Office Collection Data' dataset from Kaggle and a custom dataset (which includes data from Box Office Mojo, IMDB, Rotten Tomatoes, TheMovieDB, and The Numbers) from the following github link 'https://github.com/ntdoris/movie-revenue-analysis.git' to add the columns for production budget, domestic gross and worldwide gross. 

Because our foreign gross represented the result we wanted to analyse, we needed to find more potentially influencing factors. We did so by web scraping from The Numbers for domestic/foreign gross, Rotten Tomatoes for reviews/plot summary, Wikipedia for country/language, and Box Office Mojo for domestic/foreign gross/ratings.

# Influencing Factors

We've decided to look at the following factors:

- Date of Release (Year, Month)
- Genre
- Reviews (Audience, Critics)
- Ratings
- Budget
- Total Revenue
- Runtime

The result we want to look at is:
- Foreign revenue (gross, percentage)

## Data Exploration

# Genre

{% include domestic_revenue_by_genre.html %}
{% include foreign_revenue_by_genre.html %}
{% include genre_gross.html %}
{% include genre_percentage.html %}

# Date

# Total Revenue

---

## Analysis

---

## Conclusion

Hollywood has the tools, talent, and tenacity to bounce back stronger than ever. By focusing on data-driven strategies, embracing innovation, and delivering content that resonates globally, we can ensure that **Made in America** movies once again dominate the box office.

Let’s make it happen—because nobody does it better than Hollywood!

---